## **Internet Layer**

Internet Protocol

- **IPv4** - Internet Protocol version 4. Receives message segments from the transport layer, packages messages into packets, and addresses packets for end-to-end delivery over a network. IPv4 uses a 32-bit address.
- **IPv6** - IP version 6. Similar to IPv4 but uses a 128-bit address.
- **NAT** - Network Address Translation. Translates IPv4 addresses from a private network into globally unique public IPv4 addresses.

Messaging

- **ICMPv4** - Internet Control Message Protocol for IPv4. Provides feedback from a destination host to a source host about errors in packet delivery.
- **ICMPv6** - ICMP for IPv6. Similar functionality to ICMPv4 but is used for IPv6 packets.
- **ICMPv6 ND** - ICMPv6 Neighbor Discovery. Includes four protocol messages that are used for address resolution and duplicate address detection.

Routing Protocols

- **OSPF** - Open Shortest Path First. Link-state routing protocol that uses a hierarchical design based on areas. OSPF is an open standard interior routing protocol.
- **EIGRP** - EIGRP - Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol. An open standard routing protocol developed by Cisco that uses a composite metric based on bandwidth, delay, load and reliability.
- **BGP** - Border Gateway Protocol. An open standard exterior gateway routing protocol used between Internet Service Providers (ISPs). BGP is also commonly used between ISPs and their large private clients to exchange routing information.

## **Network Access Layer**

Address Resolution

- **ARP** - Address Resolution Protocol. Provides dynamic address mapping between an IPv4 address and a hardware address.
    
    **Note**: You may see other documentation state that ARP operates at the Internet Layer (OSI Layer 3). However, in this course we state that ARP operates at the Network Access layer (OSI Layer 2) because it's primary purpose is the discover the MAC address of the destination. A MAC address is a Layer 2 address.
    

Data Link Protocols

- **Ethernet** - Defines the rules for wiring and signaling standards of the network access layer.
- **WLAN** - Wireless Local Area Network. Defines the rules for wireless signaling across the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz radio frequencies.

